Hey, this is Stephen Furtick.
I'm the pastor of Elevation Church, and this is our podcast.
Be sure to subscribe so we can get you these new sermons every week.
Hope you're blessed today.
I'm so glad you're here.
It's great to see you in the presence of the Lord today.
Give yourself a hand because you made it.
I say give yourself a hand because you made it.
I want to share this scripture from Isaiah 43 1 and 2, a promise that I have never preached about before, but it has meant a lot to me personally through the years, and I think you'll see why.
The prophet says, but now this is what the Lord says.
He who created you, Jacob, he who formed you, Israel.
Do not fear for I have redeemed you.
I have summoned you by name.
You are mine.
When you pass through the waters, I will be with you.
And when you pass through the rivers, they will not sweep over you.
When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned.
The flames will not set you ablaze.
For I am the Lord, your God, the holy one of Israel, your Savior.
Today, I want to talk to you from this subject, the title of this message is not something, but someone.
Not something, but someone.
And then for a subtitle to the message, we're going to call it, still in it.
Still in it.
High five, four people that you can reach and say, still in it.
And please put it in the chat as well.
Still in it.
Welcome today to our eFAM around the world, wherever you are.
God is with you.
Still in it.
You may be seated.
Somebody shout, still in it.
Still in it.
Well, thank you so much.
46 looks good on me, huh?
46 years old.
46 and still not fixed.
Well, now this is ridiculous.
Y'all are a disobedient class.
I didn't tell you to sing this.
Thank you so much.
That is very time.
Thank you.
Okay, thank you.
Oh.
Thank you.
Are y'all done now?
I'm messing up my sermon intro.
I appreciate it so much.
It means a lot.
It kind of goes along with what I was going to say to start the sermon.
46 years old, I've been preaching for 30 years, and then I've been pastoring for 20.
I'm still learning how to do this.
I'm not saying that like humble pie.
I am still learning how to do this.
And even sometimes I realize that the way I've been doing it is completely wrong.
And then I try to correct and let the Lord speak to me when that happens.
It happened a year or two ago, I was praying so hard for God to give me my sermon points.
I'm kind of OCD about my sermon points.
I don't care as much about matching my clothes, but I like all of my message to match.
I like it all to start with the same letter.
I like for it all to have the same cadence.
I like for it to have an arc.
I like for it to have continuity.
I like for there to be layers to the message, and I want to present something pretty when I preach.
But the Lord spoke to me in my preparation one time and said, I didn't die for pretty, I died for people.
And you're so worried about your points.
You keep praying, Lord, give me my points, give me my points, give me my points.
And He said, I want you to shift that and start praying not for the points, but pray for the people.
And if you'll pray for the people, I'll give you the points.
Because the points are what you care about and the people are what I care about.
And if you'll pray about what I care about, I'll give you what you need.
Ever since then, it shifted me so that when I sit down to preach, I've picked your people, some that I know, some that I've invented, some who are a composite sketch of many individuals that I've met through the years.
I bring Tom to the table, all that you've been through, and all that God has done in your life.
I tell myself if this isn't true for Tom, it isn't true for anyone because of what you've been through.
I tell myself when I'm preparing a sermon that even if they don't all start with the letter N, it's okay because somebody in the room is going through Parkinson's and they don't carry anything about my points.
They don't carry anything about my points.
Somebody in the room just got a promotion.
And they don't really care about my points either.
They just think about that paycheck.
They're just thinking about that vacation.
They're going to be able to take now.
Then I think about all those people are going to have to manage now.
They didn't think about that part when they prayed for the promotion, but they're going to find out real soon.
So I need to get them prepared for that promotion.
And they don't care anything about the points.
And instead of focusing on something to say, I've learned to focus on someone to say it to you.
Always remember that God gives you influence in life, not for something.
but for someone.
Seek first the kingdom and His righteousness and all these things will be added to you as well.
If you seek the kingdom, you get the things thrown in like a prize at the bottom of a happy meal.
But if you seek the things, you miss the kingdom and the things aren't even the things you think they're going to be.
Many of us live our entire lives thinking that there is a thing.
We think there is a thing.
that will make us satisfied.
We think there is a thing that will make us confident.
We think there is a thing that will make us feel finally happy.
We think that there is a thing that will make us feel secure.
We think there is a thing that will bring us joy, and things can bring for a little while.
It works until it doesn't.
A thing can be a thing, but the thing has a thing that is only the thing until the thing is just a thing.
The thing can do the thing until the thing is just a thing.
What I'm trying to say is it's someone not something.
I'm preaching to someone today who is going through something very difficult in your life.
You say, that's generic.
I'll be more specific.
You are still in it even though you thought God brought you out of it.
Somebody say still in it.
And that's why we are surprised sometimes by the fiery trials.
In 1 Peter 4, verse 12, the disciple said, my friends, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal that has come on you to test you as though something strange were happening to you.
But rejoice in as much as you participate in the sufferings of Christ so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed.
Did you see the progression in the text?
He said, you're going to rejoice when his glory is revealed, but don't be surprised when the fire comes to test the proven value of that which your life is built upon.
I won't spend very long in that because in the book of Isaiah in a different context, the prophet is speaking to someone or actually a group of people who are in exile because of their sin and disobedience.
The Lord has allowed them to be carried away into Babylon for a while to bring them back to himself forever.
The Lord allowed them to be carried away for a little while in order to bring them back to himself forever.
And in Isaiah 43, verse one, two of the most hopeful words that can appear in scripture, where the prophet says, I know you've been a long way off.
I know you're in a strange place.
I know you're in a situation that you are not equipped to deal with, and I know that it's your fault.
When you open Isaiah 43 verse 1, get ready to shout, but now.
I think those two words should be our first point, but now.
And as a matter of fact, let's just focus on one word, now.
Somebody shout now.
You whispered it like you were going to get in trouble if you said it loud.
You won't get in trouble.
Say it loud, now.
Say it to your past.
Say now.
Say it to your shame.
Say it to that stuff from childhood you're still dragging around.
Say now.
Say it to the people who rejected you, but God's bringing somebody else to replace them.
Say it to the side of you that worries about the future so much that you can't concentrate on the present.
Say now.
I feel a now anointing rising up in this place today.
I feel that the Lord has anointed me for you now.
I know I didn't know you 15 years ago, but God puts you here now.
I know there have been some times in your life that you wish you could get back.
But now, if I could nominate two words from the text to turn on the lights and encourage somebody, I would nominate but now.
The butt lets me know something came before it that was going to cancel it out.
The now lets me know it's not over and it's not too late.
The butt lets me know that there was something that was blocking me.
The now lets me know that there's something bigger that's breaking through.
Somebody shout butt now.
I better calm down because this is just my first point, but I came to announce now to somebody.
I came to get you out of your pity party today.
I came to get you from thinking about when you're 70 years old, you're 17.
Somebody shout now.
I came to preach to a student section to tell you you don't have to wait till later to have an impact for God.
Shout now.
I came to say you're called right now.
I came to say you're chosen right now.
I came to say you're wise right now.
I came to say your life doesn't start when you go to college.
You got a ministry on your campus now.
I need a 16 year old to shout now.
I need a 18 year old to shout now.
I need a 80 year old to shout now.
I need a midlife crisis, 46-year-old to shout, now!
Now, Jesus, I need you now!
But now, two beautiful words.
Mary, the sister of Lazarus, wouldn't go to the gate and Martha came to Jesus and said, if you would have been here, my brother wouldn't have died.
But I know that even now, God will give you whatever you ask.
I'm not going to make you shout the whole sermon, but let's just keep it going for a little while.
Shout now.
But now.
And every time the devil tries to drag you back to your past, but now.
Every time he tries to drag you back to your shame, but now.
But now.
This is what the Lord says.
Isaiah 43 verse 1, please.
He who created you, Jacob, he who formed you, Israel.
Do not fear.
Somebody needs to hear that.
You say, you brought me all the way out here just to tell me something that simple.
Do not fear.
No.
I brought you all the way out here so God could tell you something that simple.
Because if I say it, who cares?
Because I don't know what you're facing.
But if God says it, and He only knows what you're facing, but He knows the plans He has for you to give you a hope in the future.
See, it's not saying something, it's someone saying something that gives it the power.
So that if someone says to you, it'll be okay, it may mean nothing.
But if somebody who lived through the death of a spouse says to you when you lose your spouse, it will be okay.
It's not something that they said, it's someone who said it.
But now, this is what the Lord says.
There's the thing that he says, don't fear, and there's the one who said it, the Lord.
I love the Lord because only he can tell me something that ridiculous.
and I have to submit to it.
If you tell me, don't be afraid.
I love when people give me advice about pastor in the church, just let the Lord lead you.
And that means a lot considering you've never done it before, but the fact, no, I mean, I appreciate it, but I appreciate the fact that the one who knows where he's taking me is the one who's speaking to me.
And I also want to point out not only the phrase, but now,
But I want to point out the phrase in verse one where he says, I have redeemed you.
I have summoned you by name.
Our first point is, but now our second point is by name.
And yes, they're all going to start with the same letter because I still like my points.
The Lord is working on me.
You know, when the Lord is speaking this verse, he's speaking it to the nation of Israel.
And so it's interesting.
that in order to deal with their fear, in order to deal with their panic, in order to deal with their pain, he speaks to their past.
He says, he who created you, Jacob, he who formed you, Israel.
Now you may be confused and think that God is speaking to two different people, any kind of is.
But the interesting thing about God calling them by name is that Jacob is both a name and a nation.
Israel,
is both a name and a nation.
By this point, when Isaiah is prophesying, they have become a nation in captivity.
But he calls them from captivity, and he calls them Jacob, and he calls them Israel.
He calls them by name.
But the interesting thing is that Jacob's name was changed to Israel when he wrestled with God and did not let go.
And so you would think that by the time God calls them by name, he would no longer speak to Jacob, only call them Israel.
However, God is not uncomfortable with bringing all of who you are into the season of your life that you're in.
And for every nation that God builds, there is a name that comes along with it.
So for every Israel that God raises up,
There is a Jacob that comes along and rides shotgun in the car.
For everything that God does in your life that is awesome, there are some other things that you bring along in the process that you wish he would get rid of.
And so when God says, I have called you by name Jacob, I have called you by name Israel.
He is speaking to both parts of me.
Not only the part of me, and I can tell this is a little too fancy.
So let me say a little bit simpler.
God knew you when He named you.
And so when God calls you, He calls you Jacob, He calls you Israel.
One speaks to all that you have been, one speaks to all that you will be, and God calls both to come forth.
And so that's why you don't have to be afraid when you're still in it.
when there's a situation in your life that you thought God would have delivered you out of and I'm gonna work on this for a moment because it can confuse you to the point where you think that the event is your identity.
And so when you struggle with a certain thing or you have struggled with a certain thing, the event becomes the identity.
This even happens to entire families because of the brokenness that a family can experience which is an event.
We will say things like I come from a
broken home.
The only issue I have with you calling the home broken is that God might want to call it blessed.
So don't let the fact that there was some brokenness in your past or even in your present.
Because let's be honest, some of us, it's not I come from a broken home.
My home is still broken, but it's still blessed even though it's still broken.
And so be careful of people who give you partial testimonies.
A partial testimony goes like this.
I was struggling with depression and God delivered me from depression.
The problem I have with your testimony is I know you still cry sometimes.
The problem I have with your testimony is I know that it sounds good on a microphone, but you are still struggling to live it out on Monday.
The problem I have with that testimony that God delivered me from
anxiety makes the person feel like if they still feel anxiety that God has failed them in the liver is.
But feeling anxious doesn't mean God has failed.
Feeling is not failing.
So that when you feel that you have failed, it does not mean that you have failed
because God the one who created you.
God the one who formed you.
God the one who named you.
God the one who makes nations out of names.
God knows my Jacob even as he calls my Israel.
Does it make sense out of my mouth like it does in my head?
He said, I called you by name.
I think I want to demonstrate this.
Let's say right now in this sermon, I was thirsty and I was like, I need some water.
I'm making my need known.
I need some water.
Thank you, chunks.
Now watch that.
I got the water.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Chungsong, I'm just grateful for you.
Got the water, but I wonder what's just now.
All I did in that situation was I made the need known.
So I didn't say, Chungs, I need some water.
I didn't tell him I was going to do this in my sermon or anything like that.
I just kind of figured somebody, all these people that love me and sing me happy birthday, you're not going to let me stand up here and go, I'm going to bring me some water.
But the Lord said, when I called you, look at this, this is a powerful word.
He said, verse one, I have summoned you by name.
Summon is a powerful word.
It's a specific word.
It's not a word like, I wish someone would.
Summon means that God knows who He wants to do it.
So let me try again.
Let's take the water.
We're just gonna do the illustration again.
And this is what I want you to see.
But now, by name, Israel, Jacob, Jacob, Israel, all the parts of you that sit in that seat with you, all of the parts of you, all the parts of your home, all the parts of your family situation,
The Lord said, when I called you, I summoned you by name.
Watch this.
Holly, would you please bring me some water?
And this is what's great about it.
Because she doesn't mind bringing me the water.
Watch this.
Because verse one, she said, I have summoned you by name, you are mine.
So now,
I don't know what would happen if I asked your wife to bring me water.
You might be offended and she might have an attitude.
She might spin in it.
I don't know your wife like that, but she's mine.
So when I said her name and I said, Holly, would you bring these?
When I summoned you, I could get used to this.
That's a good feeling.
I wonder if this summoning thing only works when I'm preaching a sermon.
I'm going to try this summon out at home.
I summoned her right Holly by name and she brought me the water.
So I've got the water from my wife.
But then there's something I can get from her that I don't really want to get from him.
She can hold my hand.
Everybody's turning red in the church.
I'm just talking about this.
Watch this.
I got the water and I bet
Because it's her.
I bet she'd give me some sugar too.
That's all right.
Hey, don't be jealous about it.
Get in some marriage counseling.
You can get some sugar too.
Because she's mine.
She's mine.
When I just asked for the thing, when I called for something, I got the thing.
But when I summoned by name, I didn't just get the thing.
I got someone and nothing against chunks.
But there is an intimacy to this thing that is not there for that thing.
And I need the one to come to me in my low moments who will not only bring me the water, but who will watch this walk with me.
Because after this water is gone, I still need somebody to walk with me.
And I'm gonna help you because some of the things that you've been praying about in your life, you just keep asking God to give you the thing, the thing, the thing.
So God, give me through this situation.
So God, change this circumstance.
So God, take away this pain.
So God, give me this advance.
So God, give me this favorable outcome.
And you can call for the thing.
You can ask God for something or you can ask for someone.
You can get somebody to bring you water
or you can have the water and the walk, because there will be times in your life where you might be standing at a Red Sea.
And you might need someone to show you what to do at that Red Sea.
So if all you have is the thing all you're ever gonna be is stuck at the sea.
But if you learn on the call of the God of Moses, the one who opened up the oceans and said, I need you now.
to do the same thing for me.
I don't just need something.
I need someone, someone.
And the Lord said, I've called you by name.
I have summoned you by name.
I have called you by name, which means that when he called you, he knew you had what he needed you to have.
So don't freak out about the situation if he summoned you for it.
You're the one for it.
Salah, pause and think about it.
I called her to be with me because I knew she had what I needed for what I wanted to prove.
And this is why the Lord says, do not fear, because I knew what I put inside of you when I summoned you.
And here's the other thing.
He didn't just call Israel.
He called Jacob too.
So when he called you to do it, he knew where you would be right now.
Go back to the history of this for a moment, would you?
I already alluded to it.
He said, do not fear I ever deemed you.
I've summoned you by name, you are mine.
But verse two is really what I wanted to preach about because this is where I think so many of us are.
When you pass through the waters, I will be with you.
And just like he can call you by name, you can call him too.
When you pass through the rivers, they will not sweep over you.
When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned.
The flames will not set you blades.
This is not just nice things God's saying, so you could sleep better at night.
These are actually historically anchored events that God's people have seen him do in the past.
But see, they haven't seen it firsthand just yet.
It's one thing to hear that God opened up in ocean.
It's another thing to stand in front of one and believe him to do it now.
It's one thing to believe that God can do it for your friend, but it's another thing to believe that he's calling your name.
And I love the promise because he's reaching in to the history, things that they've heard about God doing and speaking to something that they're about to see him do.
Now watch this, this is really good.
He said, when you walk through the fire, you will not be burned.
I think every word of that is important.
First of all, he says, when, not if.
We've got to be careful promising people stuff that God did not promise them.
We've got to be careful claiming things as promises from God that are really just preferences of our flesh.
Because the Bible would be a lot easier for me to preach if I could write it how I want.
And I wish that there was a workaround for this water that you're walking through, but there may not be.
And so the Lord says, there will be times when you walk through the waters.
And I will be with you and when you pass through the rivers.
These are two different incidents, by the way.
One can be found in Exodus 14, where the people of God crossed through the waters, the ocean, the Red Sea.
Also, you may want to read in Joshua chapter three, how they crossed over the Jordan River into the promised land.
Moses, my servant is dead.
Now Joshua will get ready to lead these people.
And the Lord did all of that for them.
But will he do it for me?
Isn't this the question that we wonder when we come up on the situation?
Will he do it for me?
Can he use me?
I understand how God can use them.
Remember, he summoned you by name, but now by name.
And he says, when you walk
through the waters, but here's the part I couldn't figure out.
In verse two, he says, when you walk through the fire, you will not be burned.
The flames will not set you ablaze.
And what I couldn't figure out is if I'm in a fire, why am I walking?
So, I mean, let's just take a vote.
How many of you fire on both sides?
Just gonna slow it down to a cool walk.
How many of you would vote that there is a better way to get through the fire than walk?
So the fire represents something that you're going through.
And the walk represents someone that you're doing it with.
And the Lord said the reason that you cannot do what He said in verse one,
do not fear is because you are so focused on something you have forgotten someone.
So now you're running all around how to do this.
Now you're trying to escape situations.
It's not something.
It's someone.
and the someone that is with you in the fire isn't another than the God who created you and formed you and knows you and called you by name, but now in the fire I'm beside you.
It must take faith for you to walk through fire.
It must take faith for you to slow down the pace a little bit.
It must take faith for you to come through this like I know it's gonna be all right.
It must take faith for you to continue in what God spoke to you even
So you don't feel his presence.
And so I wish we had an example somewhere in the Bible of when someone was in the fire and God did something about it.
Should I use Jonah?
No, Jonah was in the belly of a fish.
The only thing we could use Jonah.
Should I use Lazarus?
No, he was in the tomb.
I'm not going to get the wrong one.
Should I use...
I'm just going through... Should I use Shadrach?
Should I use Meshach?
Should I use Abednego?
Well, let's call on the three Hebrew boys then to find out about how God but now
calls me and summons me by name because he said, when you're in the fire, you will not, that's my third word, is not.
So I got now, I got name, I got not.
He said, but now when you walk through the fire, I have summoned you by name and you will not be burned.
I don't know if you're getting good notes from this message, but this is prophetic for somebody.
Let's check on Shadrach, Meshach,
and a bed and a go.
Let's check on King Nebuchadnezzar, who erected a statue 90 feet tall made of gold, nine feet wide, and said, everybody hear the sound of the music and bow to the statue I made of myself.
And there were three boys who were exiles in Babylon, who said, we will not bow.
And the king said, we'll see about that.
What if, verse 15, when you hear the sound of the horn, the flute, the zither, the lyre, the harp, the pipe, and all kinds of music, if you're ready to fall down and worship the image I made, that's good.
But if you do not worship it, you will be thrown immediately into a blazing furnace.
Then what God will be able to rescue you from my hand?
You're about to find out, because it's not something
He's a king who made a statue, and that's a thing.
And it's 90 feet tall, and it's 9 feet wide, and it's made of gold.
But God is not a sum thing.
He is God.
He's a sum one.
Why God will be able to rescue you.
And here we get the names.
Meshach and Abednego, and they replied to him, King Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you in this matter.
If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God we serve is able to deliver us from it.
That is something he can do.
God can get you out of debt.
That's something he can do.
God can restore your relationship with your daughter.
That's something He can do.
God can give you freedom from the craving.
It's a thing He can do because He's God.
And there is nothing that is impossible to God.
So God can do this thing.
Whatever the thing is, He can reduce the prison sentence.
He can cause the marriage to have love again.
He can heal the pain in your body.
God can give you a better job.
God can move you to a more favorable part of the office.
God can do the thing.
But I didn't come to get a thing for my situation, because things change.
But Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
So is... You're gonna sit there while I preach, go ahead.
But if we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God we serve,
is able to do exceeding abundantly above all we ask for things.
And he will deliver us from your majesty's hand.
Next verse, but, but even if he doesn't,
We're doing the grown-up Bible today.
We're doing the, he did not take my panic attacks away.
I had one last night, but I came to church and praised him anyway, because he's the Lord who got me doing.
I'm preaching that.
Can't we preach that?
The even-it-ness of Jesus.
We want you to know your majesty,
that we will not.
But now by name will not.
What's your will not?
What's your even if the feeling stays?
I have faith to walk through it.
Even if they walk away, God walks with me.
What's your will not?
I've told you mine before, the enemy torments me a lot of times with feelings that my entire ministry will end in failure.
Many do.
And yet, I made a decision one day that it may end in failure, but I will not live in fear.
I just won't do it.
Plan to fail.
I don't pray to fail.
I'm preparing not to fail and I'm taking every precaution, but if something happens and it ends in failure there was a time where I was terrified to get on the stage and speak in public and That's kind of important for me to do You're like, what were you 12?
No, I'm talking about when I was in my 30s and I would have to get up and do it and
And a lot of times, the only way that I could get through the first five minutes was to grip the sides of the pulpit real hard.
But I will not stop preaching.
Just because I have to preach, you're paying it.
And see, I want you to have some conviction in some area of your life that even if
I will not.
You know, this story about Daniel and the lion's den.
He wasn't even in there.
Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego were in there.
He was in the lion's den.
You understand what I'm saying.
Daniel went to the lion's den.
Shadrach and Meshach and Abednego went to the furnace.
And then we want to preach those things and expect God to bring us out of our situation by five o'clock today.
Because what I love about the scripture that I gave you, listen to this.
When they said, we will not serve your God, so worship the image of gold you have set up, it gave me a picture.
It's okay to feel it, but don't kneel to it.
You got it?
So I may feel lust, but I don't kneel to lust.
Everybody wants to preach about the stuff we want God to take away.
Take away anxiety.
We'll deal with your lust.
Some of your anxiety is dealing from your lust because you crave what you can't have and what you want, what you don't have.
And now you lust and after stuff that you're not supposed to have.
And you're anxious because you can't get it because God doesn't want to give it to you because it's not meant for you to have it.
Stop praying about anxiety so much.
Start controlling comparison.
So I want this fruit, but I'm attached to this root.
That angle work.
It's going to keep growing and growing and growing and growing.
Do not be afraid.
Yes, pastor, I agree with that.
I want the Lord to remove fear from my life.
But you might have to change some of what you watch before you fall asleep at night.
If they are killing people while you are falling asleep, you're not going to be counting sheep at 3 AM.
And it's fine.
We watch normal TV, too.
I'm not telling you all I watch is the chosen.
But I'm saying that you may have to make some adjustments.
What does this have to do with shed, right?
Let me check in a bed and a go.
They said, we will not kneel even if the fire gets hot.
And by the way, the Lord did not promise that it would not be hot.
He did not promise that you would never feel.
Stop holding God to promises that he did not make.
God did not say you would never feel stressed.
God did not say you would never feel lonely.
You will feel lonely sometimes, especially if you follow Christ.
You're gonna feel ostracized, left out, uninvited.
You're gonna have FOMO and why are you laughing at that?
When we grew up, it was FOMO, like it was fear of missing out, right?
And we were scared that everybody was off doing something fun without us when we grew up, right?
But now they don't have FOMO, they have proof of missing out.
It's looking at all the pictures and scrolling and all the stuff.
Yeah, they're there without me and they didn't ask me.
There they are right there.
I'll see them right there.
FOMO.
And it's gonna be some flames.
I just want to talk to you today, because I'm so sick of it.
I'm so sick of the preaching that is not based in a real promise.
The moment I tell you, shout and he'll bring you out, you just lose your voice.
And now I shouted and now I got Larry and Jaitis and I'm still not out.
And I'm still dealing with it.
And I still got to be disciplined.
Now, I shouted and I'm still not out, but the beauty of Daniel 3 is they said he will.
We just don't know how he wants to do it yet.
And so we are not going to bow to this pressure, even though we don't know how God is going to do it.
Read the Bible with me.
Even if he does not, we want you to know we will not serve your gods or worship the image of gold you have set up.
I told my friend when I preached this part, I'm just going to let it come out, however it wants to come out.
Then Nebuchadnezzar was furious with Shadrach and Abednego, and his attitude toward them changed.
He ordered the furnace.
He did seven times hotter than usual and commanded some of the strongest soldiers in the army to tie up Shadrach and Abednego and throw them into the blazing furnace.
So these men wearing their robes, trousers, turbans, and other clothes were bound and thrown into the blazing furnace.
It's getting close to the part that I want to read.
The king's command was so urgent, and the furnace so hot that the flames of the fire killed the soldiers who took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
These three men firmly tied, fell into the blazing furnace, firmly tied, bound with ropes.
Now I know why the Lord left the fire on to burn the ropes off.
I said, I'm free.
God will use a fire to set you free.
That's not the verse I wanted to preach either.
Verse 24 says, then King Nebuchadnezzar, lead to his feet in amazement and ask the advisors, weren't there three men that we tied up and threw into the fire?
They replied, certainly your majesty.
You know, these are some real sycophants, man.
I mean, they've been built to do the 90-foot tall statue.
He's compensating and they're going along with it, all right?
And they said, they said, certainly your majesty, yes, sirs, all three of them.
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, all three of them just as you requested.
And he said, verse 25, look, I see.
Foreman, that we tied up and threw into the fire.
I see, foreman, wait, no, no.
We tied three.
We threw three.
I see four.
This is like a math impossibility.
So we threw three.
I see four walking around in the fire, unbound and unharmed.
The fire did not kill them.
It only took off what was holding them.
for walking around in the fire, unbound and unharmed.
And the 4th looks like a son of the gods, because he was.
Because it was Jesus in the fire with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
We might as well not guess like Nebuchadnezzar.
We know his name.
It was Jesus.
We know He is the fourth man in the fire.
We know it was Jesus, the bride and morning scar.
We know it was Jesus, the lamb that was slain from the foundations of the world.
We know it was Jesus, just like it was Aaron's branch that budded, it was Jesus.
It was Jesus in the fire.
There were three men and there's four men and I see a fourth man that looks like a son of the God.
So, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego said,
God can do something, but it's not something that I'm confident in.
It's some wonder that I'm confident in.
Because if I was confident that there would be no fire, my faith would fail me now.
If I was confident that there would be no water, my faith would stop short.
But my faith is not in something, but someone has a nose name.
So Nebuchadnezzar approached the opening.
I'm almost done.
But tell somebody still in it.
Tell somebody else still in it.
Tell a third person still in it.
Now tell a fourth person still in it.
Because Nebuchadnezzar approached the opening of the blazing furnace and shouted, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the Most High God, come out, come here.
So Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came out of the fire.
Wait a minute, three went in, four walked around, three came out.
Come on, help me real quick.
Three went in.
Four walked around.
Three came out.
That means there's someone still in it.
So I came to the player for every fire walking, face walking, putting out sound of God.
I don't know what your fire is, but there's someone still in it.
It hurts, but he's in it.
Made me cry, but he's in it.
Not what I expected, but he's in it.
He's in it.
Hot five four people say he's still in it.
He's still in it.
God's not done with you.
God will make a house visit to Babylon.
God will make a house visit to a prison.
God will make a house visit to the belly of a fish.
God will make a house visit.
He's still in it.
Even though I made the mistake
My God will make a way.
But now I have summoned you, summoned, not something, but some one.
God called you.
You hear me, bro?
He called you.
And he called your Jacob just the same as he is calling your Israel.
It's not something, it's someone.
Now, stand to your feet wherever you are, even if you're only joining this message online.
When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned.
When lets me know that the trial is guaranteed, don't be surprised at the fiery trials.
Matter of fact, don't be surprised if this entire sermon at three o'clock doesn't even feel like it was for you.
Don't be surprised by it.
When you walk through the fire,
But Holly, my confidence is who I'm walking with.
So if, listen to me, if there is something that you thought God was going to do in your life and it is not happening or it is not happening on schedule, the word of the Lord is your confidence is not something is someone.
That's what he said.
He said, I
will walk with you.
And that's how I can walk through fire.
And that's how I can walk through failure.
And that's how I can walk through struggles.
And that's how because he summoned me by name.
Father, it is my sincere prayer that this message today will go far deeper than a head knowledge.
It is my sincere hope today
that we will not hear this as a candy-coated placebo message of principles to help us survive just another six days.
My prayer is that we would not hear this message with a false expectation of a delusional deliverance that leaves us doubting even more on the back end.
But my prayer is that we would see the fourth man
Yeah, the one who is still in the fire.
I prayed as I prepared today, Lord, for someone who is still in it.
I was praying for something to say, and you gave me someone to say it to.
You're still in the fire.
And so is he.
Jesus never left that fire.
He's still in it.
So that whatever fire you face today, he is
your fourth man.
You can talk to him.
You can walk with him.
You can cry with him.
You can process your pain with him.
Not something, but someone in his name is Jesus.
The one who will never fail.
I trust in God, my Savior, the one
who will never fail.
Hey, I hope you enjoyed the podcast.
And if you did, make sure to share it and subscribe so we can get you all of these new messages as soon as they're available.
I also want to take a moment and thank all of you who are a part of elevation, whether you support us financially or serve with us or just share these messages.
It's because of you that we're able to reach people all around the world.
And if you want more information on how to be a part of elevation,
Click the link in the description.
Thanks again for listening.
Make sure to leave a review, share the message, and subscribe.
God bless you.